Programming Style and Conventions for the CIF API Library

In (as yet) no particular order:

Prepared statements for the various needed operations on the backend SQLite
database behind an in-memory CIF are stored in the associated struct cif_s,
alongside the database connection.  Their names end in "_stmt".

Prepared statement pointers are initially NULL; the needed statements are then
lazilly initialized.  If ever parameter binding to or execution of a prepared
statement fails, the statement is immediately finalized (ignoring any follow-on
error code) and discarded by NULLing the pointer to it.

SQL commands used by the program use only 7-bit ASCII characters and are
passed to the SQLite interfaces that expect UTF-8-encoded text.

*Character data* from or destined for CIF instance documents, on the other
hand, are handled exclusively in the form of Unicode strings, as supported by
the ICU library's C API (data type UChar *).  In practice, that means their
in-memory encoding is UTF-16 with native byte order.  Such data are retrieved
from and passed to the SQLite interfaces that expect that form (generally
suffixed "16").

Furthermore, the intention of the design is that character data held in any of
the system's data-transfer objects belongs to those objects.  The object
construction interfaces, and necessarily the data retrieval interfaces, copy
character data into the DTOs rather than simply recording pointers.  This way,
long-lived DTOs can safely be created from stack data, and the cleanup
routines can safely free the DTOs' character data.

The CIF2 aggregate value types LIST and TABLE present multiple design
challenges.  (Some of) these have been addressed via the following
implementation and use constraints:

* Value objects appearing in a LIST belong to that list and will be cleaned up
  with it when the list is cleaned.  They must not, therefore, have a shorter
  life than their host list.  External pointers to list elements may be
  maintained and will remain valid as long as the value lives.  If an
  element is removed from a list, then the responsibility for cleaning it up
  passes to the code that removed it.

* Analogous to LIST elements, table entry objects belong to the TABLE in which they
  are enrolled (if any), and they will be cleaned up along with that host table.
  Permissions and constraints analogous to those of LIST elements pertain to
  TABLE entries.

* Similarly, the key and value objects of a table entry belong to that entry
  (regardless of whether it is enrolled in any table).  Again, analogous
  permissions and constraints apply.  Additionally, behavior is undefined if
  the key of a table entry is modified or replaced while that entry is
  enrolled in a table.  It is always safe, however, to modify or replace
  entries' values.

* It follows from the above that aggregate objects are jealous: their
  constituent objects must not simultaneously belong to other aggregates, even
  though pointers to those components may be held and used for other purposes.
  All API functions for manipulating these objects are designed to enforce the
  constraints without special attention from by caller. 

* Aggregate values added to the in-memory representation of a CIF are *copied*
  into it in a manner not specified here.  The copy belongs to the in-memory
  CIF, whereas the original remains the responsibility of its original owner.

* Aggregate value objects retrieved from the in-memory representation of a CIF 
  are again copies, the responsibility of the retriever.

The "uthash" hash table package is a very convenient header-only system, but
it has a serious shortcoming: by default, memory allocation failure results in
a fatal error (program exit).  This undesirable behavior is overridden by
redefining uthash's macro "uthash_fatal(msg)" to something appropriate to the
context before using any of the HASH_ADD* macros.  It remains to be seen
whether anything else needs to be done (for example, whether cleanup after
recovery risks undefined behavior, such as freeing a wild pointer).

Appropriate management of database and memory resources requires careful
attention to error detection and cleanup throughout the code.  The normal
idiom by which this is managed is to open a conditional block immediately
after successfully obtaining a resource, and putting appropriate cleanup code
at the end of the block.  In the event that the resource should not be cleaned
up (e.g. if responsibility for doing so is being passed to the caller) then
the block will be exited in the middle, most often by a 'return'.  This
results in code that is sometimes deeply nested, but there is never any
question at any point in the code whether a given resource needs to be cleaned
up.

The error recovery idioms make extensive use of 'goto', albeit usually disguised
by macros.  Sometimes it is spelled "break" or "continue".  This allows
duplication of recovery and cleanup code to be minimized.  Those occurrences
spelled "goto" (or "break") never branch backward, whether they appear plain or
disguised within a macro, and to the extent possible, the code is arranged so
that no more than one "goto" jump is executed during any passage through
any particular function.

SQLite3 Notes:
The parameters of prepared statements are numbered starting at 1, but the
column indices in result sets start at 0.

